chore: preferences clarifications (#475)
knocklabs/docs: content/concepts/preferences.mdx

section: Concepts
---

A [Preference](/reference#preferences) determines whether a given recipient (a user or an object) will receive a notification for a given workflow, channel, or workflow-channel pair. In this guide we'll walk through how to set notification preferences for your recipients in Knock.

> We'll start with a quick overview of the preferences model and how it ties into the rest of Knock, then we'll walk through how to set notification preferences for workflows, categories, and channels, as well as combinations of all three.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We'll start with a quick overview of the preferences model and how it ties into the rest of Knock, then we'll walk through how to set notification preferences for workflows, categories, and channels, as well as combinations of all three.
```
I wonder if we really need this paragraph? This statement isn't inclusive of all the topics in the doc, but we have the jump menu that already gives the reader an outline of what we'll cover. Just trying to really question every word as we pare this down.

Reviewer 2: I'm onboard and agree with this 👍

## An overview of preferences

Preferences are **per-recipient rules** that tell Knock whether a notification should be delivered to a recipient based on its **channel type**, its **workflow**, and the **workflow category** that workflow belongs to (if any).

To see how they work, let's start with a quick review of how Knock sends notifications to your recipients:

<Steps>
  <Step title="You configure a workflow in Knock">
    You build the logic and messages for your notification and its delivery
    channels into a workflow.
  </Step>
  <Step title="You trigger the workflow to send notifications">
    When the event that you want to send notifications about occurs, you'll
    [trigger](/send-notifications/triggering-workflows) your workflow.
  </Step>
  <Step title="Notifications are sent">
    The workflow runs for every `recipient` in the triggering API call, sending
    them a notification on each channel step that you've configured in the
    workflow.
  </Step>

> </Steps>

Author: Yeah, I don't disagree! If other folks are ok with chopping this out, I think we can save a lot of space

When a channel step executes in your workflow run, the recipient will only receive a notification if their preferences for the channel type, the workflow, and the workflow category all evaluate to `true`. To put this in inverse terms, if **ANY** preference related to a given channel step in a workflow evaluates to `false`, we will not send the recipient a notification.

<Callout
  emoji="❗"
  text={
    <>
      <span className="font-bold">Note:</span> if you do not set a preference
      for a given channel, workflow, or workflow category, Knock defaults them
      to <code className="font-bold">true</code>.
    </>
  }
/>

### Where preferences can be set

> Preferences can be set at three different levels in Knock:

Reviewer: I like this explicit callout

- [At the environment level](#environment-level-preference-defaults), as the default for all recipients in a given environment.
- [At the tenant level](#per-tenant-preference-defaults), as the default for all recipients when a `tenant` is applied to a workflow trigger.

> - [At the level of an individual recipient](#preference-sets).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [At the level recipient level](#preference-sets), which can be a [User](concepts/users) or an [Object](concepts/objects).
```

Author: For this one, I left off the explicit user/object reference because we have it both at the top of the page and a callout when you click through to the linked section. Happy to add it here if you think it's better to be more explicit, I just didn't want to get pedantic about it

Reviewer: I think I was just after something that worked with the parallel structure here in the 'At the *** level`, so we can remove the extra details

Author: Got it, makes sense! ty

}
```

In this example, the recipient would not receive any notifications from the `new-reply` workflow but _would_ receive notifications from the `new-comment` workflow.

Workflow preferences are a great way to give your recipients a way to opt out of a given notification or type of notification across ALL channels.

### Workflow category preferences

There are cases when you'll want to enable your recipients to set a preference for a category of workflows; for example, all of your workflows related to `direct` notifications. In these cases, rather than having to surface a preference control for each of those notification types, you can use `categories` to set the preference for multiple workflows at once.

> To set a `category` for a given workflow, go to that workflow's page in the dashboard, click the "..." menu, and select "Manage workflow". From there you'll be able to add categories. **Note: workflow categories are case sensitive**.

Reviewer: Yeah, my 2 cents here is that we should move the language describing 'how to create workflow categories' to this page and just link to that heading from here: https://docs.knock.app/concepts/workflows#workflow-categories

There's no how to language on the actual workflow page unless I'm missing something

> To set a `category` for a given workflow, go to that workflow's page in the dashboard, click the "..." menu, and select "Manage workflow". From there you'll be able to add categories. **Note: workflow categories are case sensitive**.

Author: I'm all for saving space, I think we could do this with a "learn how to set a workflow category here" link

  }
/>

In some cases you may want to set an additional preference set for a given user that pertains to a specific `tenant` within your product. (A well-known example of this: in Slack, your notification preferences are set _per Slack workspace_, not as global preferences that apply across all of your Slack workspaces.)

> To create a preference set scoped to a particular [Tenant](/send-and-manage-data/tenants), you'll set the `id` of the recipient's preference set equal to the `tenant.id`.

Author: lol fair!
